Gaming (#518)
solana-developers/solana-cookbook: docs/gaming/intro.md

---

> title: Gaming Intro

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Introduction to Gaming on Solana
```

head:
  - - meta
    - name: title

>       content: Solana Cookbook | Gaming Intro

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Solana Cookbook | Introduction to Gaming on Solana
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:title

>       content: Solana Cookbook | Gaming Intro

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Solana Cookbook | Introduction to Gaming on Solana
```

  - - meta
    - name: description

>       content: Intro into the gaming section for games on Solana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Learn how to build games on blockchain. Solana is well built for web3 games of all genres utilizing speed, low fees, and more to create an amazing gaming experience
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:description

>       content: Intro into the gaming section for games on Solana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Learn how to build games on blockchain. Solana is well built for web3 games of all genres utilizing speed, low fees, and more to create an amazing gaming experience
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:image
      content: https://solanacookbook.com/cookbook-sharing-card.png
  - - meta
    - name: og:image:alt
      content: Solana splash card
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:card
      content: summary
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:site
      content: "@solanacookbook"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:image
      content: "https://solanacookbook.com/cookbook-sharing-card.png"
  - - meta
    - name: robots
      content: index,follow,noodp
  - - meta
    - name: googlebot
      content: index,follow
footer: MIT Licensed
---

# Intro into gaming on Solana

The gaming space in the Solana ecosystem is expanding rapidly. Integrating with Solana can provide numerous benefits for games, such as enabling players to own and trade their assets via NFTs in games, building a real in-game economy, creating composable game programs, and allowing players to compete for valuable assets.

> Solana is purpose-built for games, with its 400ms block time and lightning-fast confirmations making it a real-time database that's free for all. It's perfect for genres like strategy games, city builders, round-based games, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Solana is purpose-built for games, with its 400ms block time and lightning-fast confirmations making it a real-time database that's free for all. It's perfect for genres like strategy games, city builders, turn-based games, and more.
```

However, not everything needs to be put on the blockchain. Smaller integrations using NFTs that represent game items, for example, can be easily done. Transaction fees are extremely cheap, and there are many tools and SDKs available to start building today. You can build your game in [Javascript](https://docs.solana.com/de/developing/clients/javascript-api) and Canvas, [Flutter](https://github.com/espresso-cash/espresso-cash-public), or use one of the Solana Game SDKs for the two biggest game engines - [UnitySDK](./game-sdks), [UnrealSDK](https://github.com/staratlasmeta/FoundationKit), and more [Game SDKs](./game-sdks).

There are several ways to integrate Solana into your game:

> 1. Give players NFTs for in game items or use them as characters. Check out [Nfts in games](./nfts-in-games)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Give players digital collectibles for in-game items or use them as characters. Check out [Nfts in games](./nfts-in-games)
```

> 2. Use Sol or an SPL token for in-app purchases or micro-payments in the game. See [Monetization](./monetization) <br/>  and [Interact with tokens](./interact-with-tokens)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use tokens for in-app purchases or micro-payments in the game. See [how to monetize your game](./monetization) and [use tokens](./interact-with-tokens)
```
